FAQ
----
What is Biblion?

What is a decentralized Web?

How can I host content on Biblion?

  See our getting started guide here:

  You have to download the Biblion software. Then, we can walk you through
  getting some Biblion and creating a new library.

Does my content need to be part of a community?

  Technically, yes. But you can create your own community! This is like starting
  your own website. In Biblion, this is easy!

Why would I start a "community"?

Why not just make a giant mega-community?

  Be careful! Running a community carries a lot of responsibility. If you run
  something like a decentralized Imgur clone, you would want to make sure people
  are not uploading illegal or disgraceful content. Without moderation, who
  would participate in such a community?

If I upload my content, will it live forever?

  Maybe! Biblion allows users to backup other peoples content. This means that
  other people have the option of serving your content while your away. But
  there is no guarantee that someone will want to host your content! If you
  publish something and can convince your friends to help you store it, it
  will be accessible as long as *someone* has it available?

What are credits? Do I need them?

This seems is a lot of moving parts... Can you make it less confusing?

  Biblion is not just a set of hosting technologies; it's a re-imagining of
  the world-wide-web, based on the parts we like.

How does this compare to existing World Wide Web?

  HTTP and the "world wide web" is the classic "web". It's what you navigate
  through in a web browser, and it is likely what you're using right now to read
  this. With HTTP, content is referenced by the server you're reading it on.
  This means that if that server ever goes down, the content disappears. People
  can and do[archive.org] make backups, but you have to know where to look, and
  there is no guarantees the backups will survive either. Biblion tries to
  solve this by allowing users to securely backup content. If the original
  server goes down, the content will live on among users of the Biblion network.

How does this compare to other decentralized web technologies?

  There are many technologies appearing for building out the decentralized web,
  and all of these technologies are related.

  Each have their strengths and weaknesses.

  IPFS[] is the Interplanetary File System. IPFS has many of the features that
  Biblion has. It allows backing up data, and routing is based on content rather
  than server name. There is little incentive for people to back up data in IPFS,
  resulting in a lot of dead content. Biblion tries to solve this with credits
  and community structures. IPFS was a major influence in the design of Biblion!

  Filecoin[] is a major development from the developers of IPFS: Protocol Labs.
  Filecoin is blockchain-based distributed file hosting server. You could compare
  it to Dropbox or Google Drive, but it is completely autonomous. They are working
  on proofs-of-spacetime that would be an exciting development for the whole
  decentralized web community. In Filecoin, users pay to have their data stored.
  In IPFS and Biblion, data is hosted voluntarily.

  DAT Project is similar to IPFS but is focused on scientific data. (Need more info...)

  Maidsafe stores and accesses data anonymously. You never know what data you're
  storing, and nodes don't technically know what you're accessing either. A
  credit system is used that doesn't use a blockchain, but instead reaches
  consensus among nodes that have behaved well for a long period of time. It
  seems similar to Freenet in philosophy. In Biblion, you are aware of you're
  hosting and credits are backed by a blockchain. Biblion emphasizes community
  building, which is at odds with anonymity.

Will Biblion become the True decentralized web? Will it beat out the competition?

  No, because we believe there is no "winner" or correct path forward. In the
  future, there will be a number of "decentralized" webs that serve different
  purposes. This has already begun, and exists outside the open source
  community as well. For example, streaming movies from the Netflix app is
  kind of like accessing a "private web". Different technologies offer
  different advantages, and everyone has different goals for them. We believe
  that openness and competition between web technologies is what will make
  the future so exciting.

What are "Lynx" and "Shelf"?

  "Lynx" and "Shelf" are two companion technologies to Biblion, and a part of
  the holistic Biblion system. These two pieces of software can be used on their
  own, but they were built specifically with the Biblion network in mind.

  "Shelf" is a simple distributed database and content repository. It allows
  storing linked data and large contents, with configurable performance
  characteristics. Lynx is designed to be run by a network of volunteer nodes,
  and offers minimal byzantine fault tolerance.
  [Learn more about Shelf]

  "Lynx" is a framework for building distributed data communities. Using a shared
  Shelf database, users can collaboratively build a giant network of data. Lynx
  supports reputation and balance management, allowing users to earn credits for
  fair participation in the network.
  [Learn more about Lynx]

Is Biblion a cryptocurrency?

  Biblion is a distributed web. It also tries to solve the problem of "free ridership."
  Free ridership is an issue where some users want to download a lot of data without
  contributing anything back to the network. There are many approaches to try to
  solve this problem, but we think the best solution is to track your contributions
  numerically. As you contribute to the network, you earn credits. As you take
  from the network, you lose credits. This encourages taking only as much as you
  are willing to give back. To make this work in a truly decentralized trustless
  manner, Biblion does have a central "currency" that is backed by a blockchain.
  However, Biblion has the soul of a data network, not a cryptocurrency. It is
  experimental software, and the coins may not be proven to be secure!

I want to invest a bunch of money! Will there be an ICO??

  No, we are not planning an ICO. If investment is your goal, you are better
  off investing in a technology that offers better financial security. Biblion
  is a decentralized web technology, and happens to have a coin as part of it.
  The mechanics of that coin may change, but it will always be focused on
  building a fair "economy" among web services.

  If you are looking to "mine" based on free hard drive space, check out Filecoin
  and Chia.

How does Biblion "mining" work? Will it ever change?

  Biblion mining is currently based on Et-hash proof-of-work mining. Eventually
  we would like to switch to proof-of-storage, but the current available options
  did not look performant enough to scale on commodity hardware. We are also
  willing to experiment with proof-of-stake based "mining" at a later time. For
  more technical details, refer to the [Specification].

  If you are looking to "mine" based on free hard drive space, check out Filecoin
  and Chia.

Ewww, I hate blockchains. Is it required?

  We wish we didn't need it, but it's the only viable truly byzantine fault
  tolerant ledger that we have found. If you like the concepts behind Biblion
  but don't want to participate in the mining part, you can experiment with Lynx.

  See [What are "Lynx" and "Shelf"?]

Why not use an existing blockchain?

  We want Biblion users to be able to start contributing to the network starting
  from nothing. If we built on an existing blockchain, library owners would need
  to buy the local coin to support paying for transaction fees. Eventually,
  we would like Biblion mining to be based on proof-of-storage or proof-of-stake,
  as it would lend itself well to existing behavior on the network.

  If you have ideas for ways to integrate Biblion or Lynx into existing blockchains,
  or how to solve Biblion consensus, please let us know!

Is Biblion secure?

  Every identity and record of data is cryptographically secured by our system.
  This means that no one can claim to be you, and no one can take control of
  your content. This is done by keeping your "private key" safe. Don't lose it!

  Communication between two nodes is always encrypted. This means no one can
  snoop on your data. However, a third party monitoring the network (such as
  your ISP or the NSA) would be able to see that you're using Biblion and which
  computers you are connecting to. This is similar to what happens with HTTPS
  on the World Wide Web.

Is Biblion anonymous?

  No. Biblion is *pseudonymous*. Every user is consistently identified by a unique
  cryptographic key. This means that users who are snooping on your activity

How does Biblion stop illegal content?

  Biblion is a decentralized system, and thus cannot have full control over what
  is published. Since Biblion is not anonymous, we expect behavior to be similar
  to what happens on the existing web. Illegal activities are prevented by the
  law in your jurisdiction.

You didn't answer my question!

  You can post on our Discourse forum here: [Biblion community]
  We can be reached at admins@biblion.io
  Our PGP key is listed here:
