Biblion is a platform for distributed data communities.

With Biblion, you can take ownership of your data, while still choosing to
share it with people around the world. On the web currently, there's "servers"
and "clients". Servers host your data and make it available for later. When you
make a post to facebook or twitter, your browser or mobile app sends the data
to their servers, and from then on out the only way to get it back is to
request it. In Biblion, everyone is a server! Everyone hosts parts of other's data.

You may have heard of system's like this before. IPFS, Dat project, Zeronet,
Solid, and more! In [year], Tim Berners-Lee, creator of the original World Wide
Web, stated that it's time to re-decentralize the web. Biblion is similar to
these projects, but aims to construct something new: community.

What is a data community? A data community is a set of people organizing
information according to special rules as to who gets to

Biblion is a server, and a standard for accessing and organizing data. All
nodes participate in two global activities: a giant Distributed Hash Table (DHT),
and a blockchain. The DHT is used for discovering content based on data hashes.
The blockchain is used as a decentralized transaction ledger (like Bitcoin), and
can also be used as a temporary record for routing announcements.

Biblion does not provide anonymity, nor does it guarantee privacy. However, you
can achieve anonymity by running your client through Tor or I2P. Privacy can be
obtained by limiting yourself only to communities you trust. You can also add
encrypted data to Biblion, and distribute the decryption keys only to people
you trust.

Communities built within Biblion usually have some degree of trust. Centralized trust is
unfashionable in the world of communal distributed system, but it's extremely
powerful. By placing trust in a small group of people, creating and verifying
transactions becomes simple and fast. However, centralized trust is nonetheless
extremely popular. Social networks, BitTorrent trackers, and many cryptocurrencies,
including Ripple and IOTA, all take advantage of centralized trust.
